You keep on talking about the spec sheet more rather than how the bikes ride. Showa vs Endurance is such a trivial point to make, people only care if the suspension does its duties well, and not for the shiny branding on the stems. Tell me why a pair of telescopics have to be this stiff? The job of the suspension is primarily not to coddle your bum but to keep the wheels planted. When you are leaned in on a corner in Tamhini and you encounter small road imperfections as is normal for an Indian road, the Guerilla gets unsettled as the suspension is that stiff. Softer setups like on the Speed 400 and Vitpilen 250 have dive under hard braking, but that compromise is far better as the softness absorbs smaller bumps keeping the front end planted and provides comfort everywhere, compared to a setup that is so stiff it neither gives you confidence to corner nor comfort over broken roads. Better braking is due to the sintered pads front and rear, while the Duke and Speed get sintered front and organic rear. The more you type the more I understand how you are a spec-sheet warrior. T4 has cheaper componentry everywhere compared to the 400, but it is the better bike simply because the engine feels unstrained, happy and torquey everywhere until close to the redline. I found myself going 40 in 5th gear and pulling from there without any fuss. The spec sheet says it is the cheaper triumph, but it is the T4 that most closely resembles the modern classic range which includes the Speed Twin 900 and 1200. 