- **class** is a **blueprint** to create an object
- provides definition of basic attributes and functions of objects

- **object** is a **running instance** of class having identity, properties and behaviours

- The class provides basic definitions of an object, which defines the attributes and methods of an object. Methods are defined inside a class definition in order to make the relationship between the class and the method explicit and are called with the object name.\

```python
class Student:
    def __init__(self, name, number):
        self.name = name
        self.scores = []
        for count in range(number):
            self.scores.append(0)
            
    def getName(self):
        return self.name
        
    def setScore(self, i, score):
        self.scores[i-1] = score
        
    def getScore(self, i, score):
        return self.scores[i-1]
        
    def getAverage(self):
        ''' returns the average score '''
        return sum(self.scores)/len(self.scores)
        
    def getHighScore(self):
        ''' returns the highest score'''
        return max(self.scores)
        
    def __str__(self):
        ''' return the string representation of student'''
        return "Name:"+ self.name+ "\n Scores:"+" ".join(map(str,self.scores))

s = Student("bvp", 5)
print(s)
print(s.getAverage())
```

### The `__init__` method and instance variables
Most classes include a special method named __init__. Note that __init__ must begin and end with two consecutive underscores. This method is also called the class's constructor, because it is run automatically when a user instantiates the class. Thus when we run
```python
s=Student("Fathima",5)
```
Python automatically runs the constructor or __init__ method of the Student class. The purpose of the constructor is to initialize an individual object's attribute.

The attributes of an object are represented as instance variables .Each individual object has its own set of instance variables. These variables serve as storage for its state. The scope of an instance variable is the entire class definition. The lifetime of an instance variable is the lifetime of the enclosing object. Within the class definition, the names of the instance variables must begin with self.
```python
self.name
```
### The `__str__` method
Many built-in Python classes usually include an __str__ method. This method builds and returns a string representation of an object's state. When the **str** function is called with an object, that object's __str__ method is automatically invoked to obtain the string that str returns. The function **print(s)** also automatically runs **str(s)** to obtain the objects string representation for output.

```python
 def __str__(self):
        ''' return the string representation of student'''
        return "Name:"+ self.name+ "\n Scores:"+" ".join(map(str,self.scores))
```

### Accessors and Mutators
- Methods that allow a user to observe but not change the state of an object are called accessors. 
- Methods that allow a user to modify an object's state are called mutators. 
- The Students class has just one mutator method. It allows the user to reset a test score at a given position.
```python
def setScore(self, i , score ):
        '''reset the ith score counting from 1'''
        self.scores[i-1]=score
```

### Docstrings
- The first thing to note is the positioning of the docstrings in the code.They can occure at three levels.
- The first level is that of module. 
- The second level is just after the class header.
- The third level is located after each method header.
- When you enter `help(Student)` at a shell prompt, the interpreter prints the documentation for the class and all of its methods.