### O(N) Brute Force
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int singleNonDuplicate(vector<int> &nums) {
        int sum = 0;
        for(int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++){
            sum = sum ^ nums[i];
            // what XOR operation does is simple, it cancels out any duplicates
        }
        return sum;
    }
};
```

### Bestt
### **Intuition:** 

- The idea is to use the binary search algorithm to optimize the solution, especially when it is given that the array is sorted. Binary search is well-suited for efficiently finding elements in sorted arrays.
- Since each element in the array appears twice and forms pair(even, odd), that is the first element occurs at even index and the second one occurs at odd index, till a single unpaired element has appeared in the array, after that the index of occurrence of pairs would be(odd, even). This observation can be used to adjust the search space dynamically, hence enhancing the overall time complexity.

### **Approach:** 

1. Edge case: If size of array equals 1, immediately return the only element in the array since it can't have a duplicate.
2. Handle the boundary cases(index `0` and index `sizeOfArray - 1`): Check if element at current index is not equal to its adjacent element (nums[1] for the element at 0th index and nums[sizeOfArray - 2] for the last element). If true, current element is the single non-duplicate element, and return it immediately.
3. Use a binary search algorithm to efficiently locate the single non-duplicate element. Initialize `low` as 1 and `high` as element just before the last element to search within the range of potential candidates.
4. While `low` is less than or equal to `high`, calculate the middle index `mid`. Check if element at `mid` is the unique element by checking its previous and next element in the array, if so, then it is the single non-duplicate element and return it.
5. If element at `mid` is not the unique element and mid is odd (mid % 2 == 1) and element at `mid` equals element at `[mid - 1]`, or if mid is even (mid % 2 == 0) and element at `mid` equals element at `[mid + 1]`, then adjust the search range:
    1. If in the left part (mid is odd and element at `mid` equals element at `[mid-1]`), move low to mid + 1 to eliminate the left half.
    2. Otherwise, move high to mid - 1 to eliminate the right half.
6. The loop continues adjusting low and high until the unique element is found. If the loop completes without finding the element, return -1 as a dummy return statement.
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int singleNonDuplicate(vector<int> &nums) {
        int n = nums.size();
        int l = 1;
        int h = n - 2;

        if(nums.size() == 1){
            return nums[0];
        }
        if (nums[0] != nums[1]){
            return nums[0];
        } else if (nums[n - 1] != nums[n - 2]){
            return nums[n-1];
        }

        while(l <= h){            
            int m = (l + h)/2;
            
            if((nums[m] != nums[m-1] && nums[m] != nums[m+1])){
                return nums[m];
            } else if((m%2 == 1 && nums[m] == nums[m-1]) || (m%2 == 0 && nums[m] == nums[m+1])){
                l = m + 1;
            } else {
                h = m - 1;
            }
        }
        return -1;
    }
};
```